Standard Dental Equipment
1.
Dental Chair:** Fully adjustable for optimal patient comfort and positioning, often with lumbar support and reclining capabilities.
2.
Operator's Stool:** Ergonomically designed for comfort, offering support and easy mobility around the dental operatory.
3.
Assistant's Stool:** Stable and mobile with a supportive foot bar, providing comfort during long procedures.
4.
Operating Light:** Bright, focused illumination that enhances visibility in the oral cavity, with adjustable intensity and angles.
5.
Air-Water Syringe:** Combines air and water to rinse and dry the oral cavity, improving visibility and comfort during procedures.
6.
Oral Evacuation System:** Uses high-volume suction to remove saliva, blood, and debris, maintaining a clean working environment.
7.
Curing Light:** Emits specific wavelengths of light to polymerize dental resins and composites, ensuring effective bonding.
8.
Amalgamator:** Mixes dental materials thoroughly for consistent results, crucial for preparing dental amalgams.
9.
Rheostat:** A foot-controlled device that regulates the speed and power of dental handpieces for precise operation.
10.
Dental Unit:** Houses essential equipment like handpieces, syringes, and suction systems, centralizing tools for efficient patient care.